Components used Node MCU (Lolin) DHT 11  LDR  Relay 6V  Resistance 330 Ohms Transistor  BC 547 L.E.D. D.C. Jack Diode IN 4007 General PCB Board Wires Adaptor 5V 2 Amps Relay ConnectorIntroduction:- This is IoT based home automation project is done using low cost NodeMCU module, It uses relays and few simple components, four electrical devices can be controlled, Temperature and Humidity can be monitored. NodeMCU is low cost module is used here. The electrical devices can be controlled by the help of Google assistance and by the blynk android app. In contrast, Wireless system can be of great help for automation systems. With the advancement of wireless technologies such as Wi-Fi, Cloud networks in the recent past, Wireless systems are used every day and every where.          FUNCTIONS OF BASIC  COMPONENTS USED: NODE MCU: NodeMCU is an open source development board and firmware based in the  widely used ESP8266 -12E Wi-Fi module With its USB-TTL ,the nodeMCU  board supports directly flashing from USB port. It combines features of WIFI  accesspoint and station + microcontroller. These features   make the NodeMCU  extremly powerful tool for Wi-Fi networking. It can be used as accesspoint and/or  station, host a webserver or connect to internet to fetch or upload data.-In our  project pins D1,D2,D7 and D8 are used to automate two lights and two fans  respectively.Pin A0 is connected to LDR.D6 is connected to DHT11 DHT11:It is a sensor which is used to sense temperature and humidity of a   particular area. LDR:It is a Light Dependent Resistor  used to sense the intensity of light.Here  we are using a  LDR which has a maximum value of 1024. Relay: A relay is an electrally operated switch. Many relays use an Electromagnet to mechanically operate a switch. Relays are used where it is  necessary to control a circuit by a separate low-power signal, or where several  circuits must be controlled by one signal.In our project we have used  6volt  relays to control two lights and two fans respectively.    Transistor: A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify or switch electronic signals and electrical power. It is composed of semiconductor material usually with at least three terminals for connection to an external circuit.In our project we have used transistor BC547  whose base is connected to node mcu ,emitter to ground and collector to Relay. LED:In our project we have used Two LED’s one Red and one Yellow.When the circuit is on Red light glows and when we there is a online connection established  between the server and circuit yellow led glows. DC JACK: A DC connector (or DC plug, for one common type of connector) is an electrical connector for supplying direct current(DC) power. Diode: Main functions. The most common function of a diode is to allow an electric current to pass in one direction (called the diode's forward direction), while blocking it in the opposite direction (the reverse direction).In our circuit  the positive pin of diodes are connected to  Relay. General PCB Board:In our circuit we have used PCB instead of Breadboard and we have soldered each and every connection to make the connections tight  and Errorfree.It  also makes it easier to carry. Adaptor:An adaptor is used to connect to switch boards so that it can work on fans and lights directly. Relay Connector:It is used to connect Relays       Future Scope:-  Future scope for the home automation systems involves making homes even smarter. Homes can be interfaced with the sensors including light sensor, Temperature & Humidity  Sensors and provide automated toggling of devices based on conditions. More energy  can be conserved by insuring occupation of the house before turning on devices and checking  Brightness and turning off light if not necessary. The system can be integrated  Closely with home security solutions to allow greater control & safety for home owners. The next step can be to extend this system to automate a large scale environment,  Such as offices and factories. Home automation offers a global standard for interoperable Products. Standardization enables smart homes that can control appliances, lightings, Environment, energy management and security as well as the expandability to connect with  Other networks.  References: - Introducing NodeMCU  Arduino 1.8.9 Digital and Analog sensors Blynk Android APP Google  Assistance          
